In this video, we're going to make our
dashboard come to life by adding charts.
If your version of Excel
doesn't support map charts,
please make sure you've opened up the ad
chance to a dashboard alt workbook.
As that will give you an alternative.
The first chart we want to add to our
dashboard is for global consumption.
To get to the consumption tab, were going
to come to our navigation buttons and
right click.
I'm going to double click consumption.
The chart is already been created for
us, so I'm just going to select it and
of course we could copy paste.
But that ends up with a lot of do
bigger chart in your workbook, so
there is another option.
Were going to come up to our
pivot chart design tab and
we're going to select move chart.
This will allow you to move the chart
into its own chart sheet or
embedded in another worksheet.
We'd like to embed options, so
we're going to choose object in,
and were going to scroll up and
select dashboard.
Let me click OK.
It brings us to the dashboard and
now all we need to do is
move that chart into place.
The next one we're going to do is
I'll renewable capacity by year.
This is the Pivot chart
we created last week.
So we're going to click into
the capacity my year sheet, and
this time we'll just copy paste,
select the chart control C.
Back to our dashboard and
control V to paste.
The formatting hasn't been done with this
one yet, so a little bit of revision.
We're going to start by coming to
our format ribbon and we're going
to set our shape feel to noPhil and
I'll shape outline to no outline.
Would also like to make our labels
a little bit easier to read,
so coming onto the home tab were
going to come to font color.
The temptation is to go for
bright, vivid white.
But actually it's a good idea to make
your labels a little more muted so
that they chart detail stands out.
So I'm going to go for
very pale shade of gray.
Let's resize are chart, so
I'm going to grab the resize handle and
I'm just going to make it to about
just over half the size of the tile.
And maybe bring it down a little bit.
We don't need a chart title because
we have a label on our tile, so
I'm going to come to my chart elements,
turn the chart title off.
And while I'm here,
I'm going to move the legend to top.
Now just a few more weeks we need to make,
the axes aren't great.
So I'm going to double
click on my vertical axis.
Come to my axis options and
change my display units to thousands.
Easy to read.
And ties in a little better
with the chart below.
The horizontal axis is also
not very easy to read.
So I'm going to select that and
we're going to come to our size and
properties and
change our text direction to be rotated.
We also want to remove
unnecessary clutter.
So coming to my fill in line options,
I'm going to set it to no line, and
if I click away now it's
looking quite nice.
All right, we can close that
will match a panel for now.
The next chart would like to
add is our capacity by region.
And again if you are working with
a version that doesn't support map charts,
can you please come to
the capacity by region.
Alt tab as that has an alternative
we've already prepared for you.
If you are working with
a newer version of Excel.
However, just come to
the capacity by region and
what we'd like to do
is create a map chart.
As we said last week that isn't
the option to create a pivot chart map.
But what we can do is use simple
calculations to pull the pivot values
into regular cells.
And then create any chart we like,
and that's exactly what Romans done.
I should just point out that he hasn't
just said equals to A5 is actually
put an if statement to check if
there actually is a value in A5.
Because when we filter the data later,
some of these cells may
end up being empty.
Map charts don't cope well with
zeros in the country names,
so we've just put a blank cell
in there if it's not there.
Now click into data.
We're going to come up to our insert tab.
We're going to come to Maps.
I'm going to choose filled map.
And there's our map chart.
We're going to make a couple of
changes to this one as well.
So this time will use are controlled 1
keyboard shortcut to open our format chart
area and we're going to come
to options and properties.
And we're going to click
into the map area.
And we're going to come to series options,
and
we're going to change our map
projection to the Miller.
And our map area to
only regions with data.
And the reason for that is we'd
like to be able to filter the data.
So for example,
if I filter to only show Eurasia,
It filters the data and
it filters the map.
All right, I'm going to undo that change
because, we want the whole world for now,
and let's copy that map control C and
come to our dashboard.
I'm going to paste it in on the right
hand side of our main tile.
We don't want a chart title,
so I'm going to turn that off.
But we do need to change our formatting,
so I'm going to come to the format tab,
and you'll see it's remembered
my choices from last time, so
I'm just going to click the left half of
shade filter, say no Phil, and no outline.
And we're just going to make this map
a little bit wider, and we actually need
to fit something underneath, so
I'm just going to move that a little bit.
Just looking really good,
now we have one last visualization we
want to add in this video,
called a small multiple.
Small multiples have become
very fashionable in dashboards,
because they allow us to create a grid
of many small charts which let's us
more easily compare datasets.
What Roman would like to be able to do,
is see how the distribution of
renewable versus nonrenewable capacity
has changed over the years, and
he wants to do this using a series,
of donut charts.
The first donut chart, has already been
created, so I'm coming to the 2000 tab,
but we still need one for 2010 and
2019, and we don't want to have to go
through the process of creating and
formatting those two as well.
One of the other differences between
pivot charts and normal charts,
is you can't just link them
to a different data set, but
fortunately, there is
a nifty way round this,
so I'm going to select my donut chart,
and I'm going to copy control+C, and
I'm going to create a brand new workbook
control+N, and Paste Control+V.
That has actually unlinked the chart
from the original pivot data, so
something to be aware of, and
it is converted it to a regular chart.
I'm going to copy it again, control+C,
all tab to go back to my work book and
I'm going to come into the 2010
worksheet and paste that regular chart.
Here's the great thing, if I want to
link a regular chart to a pivot table,
then I can do, and it's very easy.
I come up to chart design,
I come to select data, and
I just click anywhere into the pivot,
and when I say okay, not only does it link
it, but it converted to a pivot chart.
Brilliant, let's do that again,
so my 2019 sheet,
I'm going to paste,
come up to chart design,
click select data,
click into my pivot, and say OK.
Now I have lost a little
bit of formatting,
but I've got a little work around for
that one as well, so
we're going to come back to our 2000
chart, and we're going to copy.
Then we going to come into 2010 and
paste, and you'll see it just paste
the formatting, and same with 2019,
all done really quick.
We now need to put these three
charts into our dashboard, but
I'd like to avoid having to copy paste,
copy paste, and
there's a great little
efficiency tool here, as well.
We're going to come up to our home tab,
come to our clipboard group,
and open the dialog launcher.
This opens up the clipboard, and
we can see the last thing we copied,
which is our 2000 chart, and typically
that's what the clipboard stores,
the last thing we copied.
But once you open it, you can actually
copy multiple things to the clipboard,
let's have a look, so
I'm going to come to my 2010 sheet,
make sure my chart is selected,
and Control+C.
And then the same with 2019, control+C,
I now have all three on the clipboard and
I can go and
paste all three at the same time.
So I'm going to come back to my dashboard,
and the only thing with this,
is you do need to be on a cell to do it,
so you can't be clicked on your tile.
So I'm just going to click somewhere in
a cell next to my dashboard, and I'm going
to select my 2000 chart first, then I'm
going to click on another blank cell,
and click my 2010, and
then another blank cell and my 2019.
There are my three charts, I'm going to
use my shift key to select them all, and
I'm going to drag them into my dashboard.
Then all I need to do is line them up,
so I'm going to come to shape,
format a line and a line left.
And to label the charts, which is going to
use a text box, and here's one I prepared.
Earlier, so if you just scroll
to the left a little bit,
you'll see a nice big text box and
you can actually just drag that on so
that all the labels are positioned
nicely over the charts.
And you can spend a little bit of
time making that look just right.
Our dashboard is now really starting to
come together and in the next video we're
going to finish off the other two panels
by adding interactive infographics.